>> Richard Feldman: Talk about list.head,
maybe.
Type Variables and Pipelines.
Okay, so let's start with
a little bit of JavaScript code.
Let's say I got a function
here called first, and
it's going to take a list of users and
return the first user.
So users[0],
that's how this is done in JavaScript.
So if I call first on
an array that has Sam and
Jess in it, it's going to return Sam.
If I call first passing an empty array,
it's going to return undefined.
That's what happens in JavaScript when
you do [0] on an array that is empty.
So what about in Elm?
Elm doesn't have a concept of undefined,
so
clearly it's going to have
to do something else.
So here I'm defining the same function.
First users =, and
I'm saying List.head users.
So in Elm, List.head means gives
me the first element in the list.
I can call first passing Sam and Jess.
Now this is gonna give me back
something slightly different.
It's not giving me back Sam
like it did with JavaScript.
It's giving me back just Sam.
And if I call first on empty list,
it's giving me back nothing.
So what's going on here?
What's the deal with this just and
nothing?
Well, those are basically
part of a unit type call,
sorry a custom type call maybe.
So it's kind of like compare the
implications of using these two different
approaches.
So here we saw two different outcomes.
Calling it with an array
that was not empty,
that had Sam as the first element,
got us back Sam.
Calling it with empty array
got us back undefined.
On the Elm side,
we got back just and nothing.
So if I were to call first our new users,
it's new users being either Sam or
undefined.
And I call .length on that,
It'll give me back two if I
successfully got back something valid.
Or I might give back, hey cannot
read property length of undefined.
Like I said, that should be a three,
Sam has three letters in it.
In contrast, the Elm version I
have just "Sam" and Nothing.
Because this is not a string, this is
actually a wrapper around a string,
this is a custom type
wrapper around a string.
I have to do a case expression on it
before I can actually do anything
with that string.
So I can say case first newUsers of and
if I got a Just,
then I unwrap the string in there and
give it a name, I'll call it user.
And now I can call String.length on that,
that'll work.
If I got Nothing,
I have to do something else,
I don't have the user in scope
to attempt to do anything on.
So, maybe I'll just
default to returning 0.
So the difference here is that if I want
to operate on the results of List.head,
I first have to run this
case expression to deal with
the two variants inside this
custom type know as maybe.
If I got adjust,
then I can actually work on it.
If I got Nothing, I can't work on it.
And so this is the difference,
List.head will give you back just wrapped
around the particular value inside
the list that was there if it found one.
And if the list was empty,
it will give you back nothing.
Which doesn't wrap anything,
because in that circumstance,
there is nothing to give back.
>> Richard Feldman: So
if we call List.head passing Sam and Jess,
we get back to Sam.
List.head of Sam and Jess is being
called on a list of strings and
we get back what's known
as a Maybe String.
So Maybe is a parameterize type and
its type parameter matches
the list that it got.
So if I call List.head on two floats,
that would give me back a Maybe Float.
And of course,
if I call List.head on two Booleans,
it would give me back a Maybe Bool.